Scenario Lab 2 - Fix

IP addresses
-192.168.100.0/24 - hosts
 /29 subnetting scheme

-172.16.100.0/24 - point to points
 /30 subnetting scheme

FIXES
1. VLANs
New hosts were added as instructed and each department's hosts were added to a vlan named after the department itself.
Having vlans means implementing ROAS on the router interface directly connected to the network. Each subint represents the default gate for each vlan in the network.
* possible errors
! the switch interface connected to the router MUST be a trunk port
! the subints MUST be configured to support encapsulation dot1q before an ip address can be assigned

NOTE: OSPF was not included as part of the changes to be made but given that the ip addresses will be changed, OSPF may be affected and so, it is important to pay attention to that.

2. DHCP
automatic address assignment has become key given the increased number of hosts and networks, hence DHCP. In this fix, DHCP is connected in the EXTERNAL-ROUTER. 5 pools are made available for the 5 different vlans in the network.
Given that dhcp is not configured on the first hop, they have to be configured as relay agents in order to broadcast the DHCP discover message.
* possible errors
! the dhcp relay agent command should be applied on the subints as they are the interface directly connected to the vlans

3. SSH (on routers)
for ssh to be configured, a domain name, enable secret as well as a local user and secret combination has to be configured first.

4. ACL
to filter access around the network, acls are implemented. In this fix, 4 separate acls are configured and applied across the 3 different routers.
GROUND-FLOOR-ROUTER

ip acl SALES
deny direcors
permit any

FIRST-FLOOR-ROUTER

ip acl FIRST-FLOOR
deny sales
permit any

EXTERNAL-ROUTER

ip acl INTERNET
permit it
deny sales
deny accounting
deny hr
deny directors
permit any

each of the routers can only be remotely accessed by IT and so this same ACL was added to all routers

ip acl REMOTE-ACCESS
permit it
permit any

*possible errors
! the order of the ACE matters
! permit any counteracts the explicit deny command
! make sure to apply your acl correctly

5. NAT
to save the company money, the previously configures globally unique addresses were dropped and private ip addresses were used as indicated at the top. to access external resources though, a globally unique address is still need, enter NAT overload. The single globally unique address in the network exists in the s0/0/0 interface of the external router and is configured to be the source of all traffic coming from within the network
